---
title: "French Discomfort"
layout: ../../layouts/Layout.astro
---

<h2>French Discomfort</h2>
<p><i>May 2023</i></p>

Hamidah applied to college! Who would've thought it? The degenerate, terribly anxious human decided that it would be a good idea to go to school in another bloody continent, in a language that she kinda sucks at. Ha! Next year, I’ll be starting school in France (sorry Andrew for my indecisiveness!) and spending the summer beforehand reconciling the fact that I’m now an adult and my life has officially started. It doesn't feel momentous at all, but I guess it's good to reflect something. I want to preserve optionality and will be probably doing the singular bachelor's degree at the university and perhaps returning to the states for one of their dual-degrees in my third year.

When I was a wee child, my very African father would give me a fun-loving (lol) lecture most days after Kindergarten. I’d walk into the kitchen to greet him, in my navy blue uniform, and there he would be hunched over the computer desk reading some article. He’d ask me what I learned in school that day, to which I learned how to fabricate a nice narrative that brought together the disparate snapshots that managed to stay in mind from the day. He would also ask me to tell him what was on my agenda for the rest of the afternoon, and some days I would be roped into his spoken dreams of his eldest child - his only daughter - going to university one day. The post-kindergarten lectures would one day end, but they’ve popped into my mind more frequently as of late. I didn’t relish in his fantasies. I did okay in school and spent too much time on the family computer watching cartoons and doing typing tests. Some nice positive reinforcement from school along the way, and I decided there wasn’t any point not to try, to not succeed according to some standard I fail to articulate. I guess now when I’m in the deep depths of despair, I can look at the sole box on his checklist and say it’s been successfully ticked.

This year has been retrospectively weird. I went from travelling for the first time alone, arriving at the airport a very cautious 3.5 hours before my flight, to being the type of person who almost misses her flight, sprinting to the gate. I developed a somewhat unhealthy need for novelty, started online high school, earned myself some deep technical debt (someone be my math tutor lol), brought back freestyling as a hobby, typed many words on my computer - some of which are now public - found some really great music that I binge listen to for hours a day, and met many cool people. In August next year, I’ll be going to Sciences Po (I’m making this public knowledge, so I don’t change my mind for the 100th time), leaving North America (which I’ve grown to actually like), to yeet myself into discomfort once again. Beyond the nice scholarships, which are making this debacle less expensive and surprisingly cheaper than my local options, and feeling pretty happy with the community I’ve found largely on the east coast, what better way to test your limits than to leave everything you know and start again? I’ve seen the Instagram for the ‘27s and let me just say they’re the most aesthetic, French, and French wannabes you can imagine. I was in three pre-frosh group chats, and while the other two were about course planning, only one of them was dissecting the fashion of this year’s MET (lol).